feat(aps): utm how to guides (#4846)
scaleway/docs-content: pages/apple-silicon/how-to/test-mdm-workflows.mdx

---
meta:
  title: How to test MDM workflows using a VM

>   description: This page explains how to test MDM workflows useing a VM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: This page explains how to test MDM workflows using a VM
```

content:
  h1: How to test MDM workflows using a VM
  paragraph: This page explains how to test MDM workflows using a VM
tags: vm utm mdm
dates:
  validation: 2025-04-15
  posted: 2025-04-15
categories:
  - bare-metal
---

Scaleway's hosted Mac mini with UTM as a hypervisor provides a unique and powerful platform for testing and validating Mobile Device Management (MDM) solutions.

This documentation guide is designed to help you get started with testing MDM automation and deployment workflows on a Scaleway Mac mini with UTM.

> It provides step-by-step instructions for enrolling a VM in an MDM server, testing MDM commands and deployment, and manually installing configuration profiles. Whether you're an MDM administrator, a developer, or a QA engineer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It provides step-by-step instructions for enrolling a VM in an MDM server, testing MDM commands and deployment, and manually installing configuration profiles. The documentation is suitable for MDM administrators, developers, or QA engineers.
```

## MDM enrollment

1. Install and configure your MDM server according to the provider's documentation.
2. Create an enrollment profile from your MDM solution.
3. On your VM, navigate to **System Settings** > **General** > **Device Management**.
4. Complete the enrollment process specific to your MDM provider to connect your VM to your MDM server.

### Testing MDM commands and deployment

1. Use your MDM's admin console to push configurations and commands to the enrolled VM.
2. Verify that MDM commands are properly received and executed on the VM.
3. Test software deployment, configuration profiles, and policies to ensure they are working as expected.
4. Simulate real-world device management scenarios to ensure your MDM setup is working correctly.

### Manual configuration profile installation (optional)

If needed, you can manually install a configuration profile on your VM:

1. Download your configuration profile (`.mobileconfig` file) from your MDM provider.
2. On your VM, go to **System Settings** > **General** > **Device Management**.
3. Click the "+" button and select your profile.

> 4.Follow the prompts to install and activate the profile.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. Follow the prompts to install and activate the profile.
```
